From the Apple to Humanity

In most situations, I try to refrain from becoming locked into using a certain tool, especially in the arena of information technology. I tend to keep up with technology news and trends, which constantly makes me consider my own habits. As one would expect, this does not mean that I am always successful in achieving my goal. I depend on Google for email, Facebook for social networking, Twitter for short communication, and Reddit for keeping up-to-date on web development topics and other interests. Each of these services could be replaced in some way by another with relatively low costs, though, so the extent to which I am locked-in by them is questionable. A technology that presents more lock-in, on the other hand, is Mac OS X.

For some time now, I have been interested in switching to Ubuntu as my full-time desktop operating system. It offers a variety of advantages over Mac. First, I feel much more comfortable with its status as free and open-source software (FOSS), which appeals to me as a supporter of initiatives to empower communities to improve things as they see fit. Apple's ethos with Mac is the complete opposite of this. This opposition of values extends to my ability to use this system across computers: Mac can only be installed on Apple machines, whereas Ubuntu can be installed on any machine with a standard chip architecture. Second, as I become more of a programmer, I value the control offered by Linux operating systems, which is missing in Mac's severely restricted ecosystem. With Ubuntu's package manager, I have the ability to easily tailor my system as much as I like, from uninstalling default programs to creating local development environments for, well, anything. I can even install any of at least ten desktop environments (without even getting into window managers). This allows me to make the operating system mine and to maximize my ability to use the computer for my own purposes. Third, it would allow me to stop dual-booting on my computer and to replace my hard drive with a solid-state drive, thereby increasing my machine's performance.

Unfortunately, as I type this in Mac OS X, I have been unsuccessful in switching from Mac to Ubuntu for a few reasons. The primary issue that I have encountered is the integration of Apple's iCloud software into my habits. In an effort to avoid using Google for everything for fear of being locked-into its services, I moved my calendars into Apple Mail and relied instead on iCloud to sync them between devices. All of my calendar data, aside from some shared calendars for school, are now in Apple iCloud. Given that I have moved calendar services in the past, this would not present a significant challenge if not for the fact that Ubuntu does not have a similar service, which means that I can either continue to use iCloud, switch back to Google, or set up my own calendar server. In this situation, sticking with iCloud represents the lowest cost option, in terms of exposing myself to lock-in with Google on the one hand and greatly reducing convenience on the other.

Next is the issue of sunk costs. Rationally, this should not play a role in this matter, but it does. I have purchased my computer (albeit in 2009), the latest version of Mac OS X, and several pieces of (admittedly replaceable) Mac-specific software. Given my existing investment in an Apple computer, it feels distressing to give up the option to use its operating system. In terms of less tangible sunk costs, I have also internalized Mac shortcuts and would have to dump them in order to adop Ubuntu's shortcuts in the event that I switched. I do not particularly want to use it anymore, but I dislike the idea of forfeiting what I already have.

On the topic of Apple computers, they are perhaps the largest actual barrier to my switching: compared to Mac, Ubuntu has poor compatibility with my computer. This is the case because Apple does not release the drivers required for other operating systems to achieve full-compatibility with its products (see: reason number one for switching). There is a patchwork of work-arounds and fixes that have been implemented into Ubuntu to ensure better compatibility, but they cannot match the level offered by Mac OS X in its native environment without a collection of notes and warnings (Mactel Support Team, 2012). Accordingly, to use my computer in the least frustrating way possible is to remain a Mac OS X user.

In reflecting on the benefits and costs that I associate with switching operating systems, I am struck by how psychological they are. It appears that I see my operating system as an extension of my identity and must reconcile it with other parts of myself. I am hyper-aware of the potential for becoming locked into a particular platform and clearly seek to avoid that, especially if I feel uncomfortable with the ethos that the platform promotes. As Jaron Lanier advises, I am skeptical of the technology that I use and attempt to "resist the easy grooves they guide [me] into" for fear that I "will become entrapped" (Lanier, 2010). At the same time, I concern myself with sunk costs and find it difficult to write off existing expenditures of time, money, and effort. Those easy grooves are worth something, too! Although I would prefer to break the ties that bind me, I have to be aware of the costs associated with other parts of myself. In a sense, then, continuing to use Mac OS X could represent an aspect of my identity as much as does a FOSS alternative, and setting up that conflict may be the protection that I need from becoming entrapped within one or the other ecosystem.

Works Cited

Lanier, Jaron. (2010). You are Not a Gadget. New York: Vintage Books.

Mactel Support Team (2012, August 26). Macbook Pro5,5/Precise. Ubuntu Documentation. Retrieved from: https://help.ubuntu.com/community/MacBookPro5-5/Precise.
