The world of (academic) philosophy divides itself into three historical traditions: analytic, continental, and Eastern. At its roots, this classification system arose from Anglo-American philosophers' need to separate their approach to philosophy from that of the rest of Europe, with the addition of Eastern philosophy coming later in response to the (mostly political) need to recognize non-Western philosophy as a legitimate endeavor following the collapse of colonialism. Analytic philosophers' approach is defined roughly as a commitment to clear argumentation, formal logic, and natural science as the basis for doing philosophy. This stands in contrast to continental philosophy, which tends to be the type of thing that most people mean when they envision philosophy: sweeping arguments on meta topics with a more skeptical approach to science and a more respectful view of social theorizing. Eastern philosophy, meanwhile, boils down to everything else (i.e. the residual category) in this classification system, encompassing everything from Chinese to Indian to Islamic philosophy.

As an example of how this classification system works, let's look at two philosophers: Bertrand Russell and Martin Heidegger. Both had wide-ranging philosophical interests that encompassed nearly all of philosophy, from the philosophy of language to ethics to metaphysics, and both hailed from and worked in Europe (Britain and Germany, respectively) during the same time-period. The difference arises from the approach that each took to answering philosophical questions. For Russell, logic was supreme, and an idea could be true only if it logically followed from true premises, meaning that a theory entailing that Earth is flat could not possibly be true because it leads to an absurd conclusion. He sought to understand pieces of the world (e.g., the meaning of a sentence such as "the present king of France is bald") through rigorous analysis and logic. Heidegger, on the other hand, started from the premise that his ideas were true and attempted to work toward an understanding of the world that accorded with those ideas. His driving focus was on the history of philosophy and understanding thought's progression rather than understanding the world as individuals see it. Based on these approaches (logical, narrow on the one hand; social, broad on the other), Russell is classified as an analytic and Heidegger as a continental philosopher.

De jure, this classification system divides philosophers based on their intellectual ancestors (i.e. Frege vs. the German Idealists vs. anybody non-European), but de facto it does so on the basis of location (i.e. English-speaking countries vs. continental Europe vs. anywhere else). This illustrates the most striking aspect of this classification system: voice. It was invented by English-speaking philosophers as a way to separate their work from that of their counterparts on the European continent. Accordingly, the definition of analytical philosophy is much clearer and defined positively, as opposed to that of continental philosophy which is categorized by negative qualities (e.g., it does not respect science, it does not rely on logic). Then, of course, the grouping of everything else into Eastern philosophy lacks any kind of intellectual basis and relies solely on its being not-Western. Under this approach, all of philosophy is defined in response to a fairly small section of philosophy (analytic philosophy's current domination of university philosophy departments notwithstanding).

Okay, so what? Philosophy is effectively the epitome of solipsistic intellectual endeavors with no real importance in the world at large, after all. Perhaps so. However, that ignores the effect that this classification system has on other fields. There may not be many philosophy majors (a population that includes this author), but there are many students who are required to take some sort of philosophy course (e.g., Great Books, the History of Ideas) in order to graduate. Who decides the curriculum for these courses? At many top universities, the philosophy department. That makes the question of philosophical classification and the canon incredibly important to the intellectual exposure of the students who will go on to assume positions of power in society. Under that guise, then, the system proposed by some British philosophers at the turn of the 20th century in order to distinguish their work plays a significant role in deciding which ideas students ought to understand and inherit.

---

Now, in order to avoid throwing my intellectual brethren under the bus here, I want to explain that I have nothing against the analytic tradition. In fact, as a result of my own exploration as much as my education in an analytic department, it is the approach that feels most like my intellectual home. Nevertheless, its dominance of academia as the respectable/rightful philosophical tradition strikes me as a legitimate concern, given the existence of so many competing traditions.
